Many of the source files for Pamx contain code written by or derived
from code written by Jim Frost for his program Xloadimage.  The files
in which Frost has copyright contain Frost's name at the top.  Frost
licenses his copyright to the public as follows:

    Copyright 1989, 1993 Jim Frost
   
    Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software
    and its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee,
    provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and
    that both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear
    in supporting documentation.  The author makes no representations
    about the suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is
    provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.
   
    THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE,
    INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS, IN
    NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR
    CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS
    OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE
    OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
    USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.


The rest of the code was primarily written by Bryan Henderson,
starting in 2006.  Bryan and other authors have contributed their work
to the public domain.


Here is a more or less complete list of people who contributed to
the Xloadimage from which Pamx was derived.  The list is from the README
file in the Xloadimage source code:

Special thanks to the crew at the Boston University Graphics Lab for
their assistance and sample images, and to bzs@std.com for his simple
dithering algorithm (or what's left of it).  Real special thanks to
Kirk L. Johnson (tuna@athena.mit.edu) for a very nice GIF loader and
dithering routine, to Mark Snitily (zok!mark@apple.com) for 386/ix
compatibility work, to Andreas Stolcke (stolcke@icsib12.berkeley.edu)
for miscellaneous bug fixes, to Anthony A. Datri (datri@convex.com)
for a number of things, to Mark Moraes (moraes@cs.toronto.edu) for
the slideshow colormap fix, to Gregg Townsend (gmt@cs.arizona.edu) for
a suggested dithering routine and other fixes, to Brian Frost
(B1F5814@RIGEL.TAMU.EDU) for changes for VMS, to Chip Horstman for G3
FAX support, to Deron Dann Johnson (dj@eng.sun.com) for fixing the
RetainTemporary bug, to Tom Tatlow (tatlow@dash.enet.dec.com) for
image rotation code, to Mark A. Horstman (mhorstm@sarek.sbc.com) for
tilde expansion in .xloadimagerc files and virtual-root support in
root.c, to Tim Roper (timr@labtam.labtam.oz.au), Graeme Gill
(graeme@labtam.oz.au) for gamma correction and Utah RLE image support,
Mark Majhor (uunet!sequent!markm) for FBM and MacPaint support, Ian
MacPhedran (macphed@dvinci.usask.ca) for PGM and PPM support, Per
Fogelstrom (pf@diab.se) for a fix to send.c, Hans J. Albertsson
(hans@Sweden.Sun.COM) for cleaning up GIF aborting, Graham Hudspith
(gwh@inmos.com) for a geometry patch, Glenn P. Davis
(davis@unidata.ucar.edu) for McIDAS areafile support, Keith S. Pickens
(maxwell.nde.swri.edu!ksp) for fixing the RLE loader to work with the
updated zio package, Mike Douglas (douglas@wilbur.coyote.trw.com) for
normalization, Rod Johnson (johnson@wrl.epi.com) for speedup
suggestions, Hal Peterson (hrp@cray.com) for his Imakefile fix, Matt
Caprile (Matthew.Caprile@ec.bull.fr) for slideshow delay code, Bob
Deroy (rwd@bucrsb.bu.edu) for mondo 24-bit Sun Rasterfile images that
broke everything, Christos S. Zoulas (christo@ee.cornell.edu) for a
first-cut 24-bit implementation, Gerald James Barnes
(gjb@oasis.icl.stc.co.uk) for a first-cut forced-visual
implementation, Michael Campanella (campanella@cvg.enet.dec.com) for
more VMS changes, Kee Hinckley (nazgul@alfalfa.com) for robustness
changes to the g3 and MacPaint loaders and the ZIO package, Tim
Northrup (tim@brspyr1.brs.com) for PC Paintbrush and GEM image
formats, Richard Weidner (richard@elroy.jpl.nasa.gov) for lots of
24-bit testing,  Eckhard Rueggeberg (erueg@cfgauss.uni-math.gwdg.de)
for a better PCX loader, and any others whose names I've missed.
