.\" *************************************************************************
.\" *  Copyright © 2004-2006 Rémi Denis-Courmont.                           *
.\" *  This program is free software: you can redistribute and/or modify    *
.\" *  it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by *
.\" *  the Free Software Foundation, versions 2 or 3 of the license.        *
.\" *                                                                       *
.\" *  This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,      *
.\" *  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of       *
.\" *  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the        *
.\" *  GNU General Public License for more details.                         *
.\" *                                                                       *
.\" *  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License    *
.\" *  along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>. *
.\" *************************************************************************
.TH "ISATAPD" "8" "$Date: 2009-05-29 14:00:00 +0800 (Fri, 29 May 2009) $" "isatapd" "System Manager's Manual"
.SH NAME
isatapd \- ISATAP IPv6 Router and Prefix Discovery
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR "isatapd" " [" "OPTIONS" "] ... [" "ADDRS" "] ..."

.SH DESCRIPTON
.B isatapd
implements the ISATAP IPv6 Router and Prefix Discovery procedures
specified in Section 8.3 of [RFC5214]. It uses a Potential Router
List (PRL) that records the IPv4 addresses of candidate default
routers available on the ISATAP link. PRL discovery is through
domain name lookup in the site name service, through manual
configuration of IPv4 addresses, or a combination of both.

This program is used on ISATAP hosts and non-default routers;
it sends Router Solicitation (RS) messages over the ISATAP
interface to elicit Router Advertisements (RAs) from default
routers.

This program is also intended for use on hosts and routers that
follow the specifications for Virtual Enterprise Traversal (VET)
(draft-templin-autoconf-dhcp).

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.BR "\-h" " or " "\-\-help"
Display some help and exit.

.TP
.BR "\-d ifname" " or " "\-\-dev ifname"
Supply the name of an ISATAP/VET netwok interface associated
with the Potential Router List. By default, isatapd uses the
name "is0".

.TP
.BR "\-p prlname" " or " "\-\-prl prlname"
Supply the Potential Router List (PRL) name for use on this
ISATAP/VET interface (e.g., isatap.example.com). There is
no default PRL name, and this option may be ommitted if IPv4
addresses are manually configured.

.TP
.BR "\-q" " or " "\-\-quiet"
Only display advertised IPv6 prefixes. Display nothing in case of failure.
That is mostly useful when calling the program from a shell script.

.TP
.BR "\-r attempts" " or " "\-\-retry attempts"
Send ICMPv6 Router Solicitations that many times until a
Router Advertisement is received. (If no advertisement is
received, isatapd will initiate the sending sequence again
after delaying 120 seconds.) By default, isatapd will try
3 times (MAX_RTR_SOLICITATIONS from RFC2461) before
delaying 120 seconds and trying again.

.TP
.BR "\-V" " or " "\-\-version"
Display program version and license and exit.

.TP
.BR "\-v" " or " "\-\-verbose"
Display verbose information. That is the default.

.TP
.BR "\-w wait_ms" " or " "\-\-wait wait_ms"
.RI "Wait " "wait_ms" " milliseconds for a response before retrying."
By default, isatapd waits 4 second between each attempts
(RTR_SOLICITATION_INTERVAL from RFC2461).

.TP
.BR "ADDRS"
A list of IPv4 addresses of ISATAP default routers. This list
is in addition to any IPv4 addresses discovered through domain
name resolution in the site name service.

.SH SECURITY
.RI "isatapd must be " "setuid" " " "root" " to allow use by non "
privileged users. It will drop its root privileges before any attempt
is made to send or receive data from the network to reduce the possible
impact of a security vulnerability.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
ndisc6(8), rdisc6(8), ipv6(7)

.SH AUTHOR
Kwong-Sang Yin <kwong-sang.yin@boeing.com>

Fred Templin <fred.l.templin at boeing.com>

$Id: isatapd.8 483 2009-05-29 14:00:00Z fltemplin $

http://www.remlab.net/ndisc6/
